---
route: bowl
title: A bowl Of Biran
permalink: /en/bowl
---
## Heavenly Gift
At the 1997 French Summer Camp in Mejannes-le-Clap, one of the senior French
instructors asked me to give a name to an international Aikido community whose
size was growing rapidly with each passing year. The community has coming into
being naturally. It has progressed into an international family with a strong
and distinguishable character through an interchange of instructors from the
USAF Western Region, British Aikikai, and various French dojos along with
their associate members in Greece, Switzerland, and Germany.

Naming this community was needed partly because of the European political
situation where organizational control is very rigid surrounding Aikido. It
includes control by the government which tends to kill the free and open flow
of the students-teacher relationship which of the utmost priority in our
Aikido activity. Because of that situation, many concerned members have been
looking for a new direction away from the current state of confusion and
unhappiness there. They have been looking for a sense of identity in their
Aikido lives.

After two years of careful thought, I chose the name Birankai. Biran is a
Buddhist term meaning a cosmic storm that occurs in the moment before cosmic
order shifts. It is a force of recovery, spontaneously manifesting itself to
restore order. The storm can be powerful and violent. Yet, at the same time it
is one that heals through cleansing and purification. In January 2000, I
decided to formally start Birankai, taking advantage of the millennium and
Year of the Dragon. During the USAF Western Region Summer Camp held in San
Diego in June 2000, I appointed Dr. Rikko Varjan to be first head member of
Birankai family.

The bowl shown here encircled by three patterns perfectly satisfies my
vision of Biran. In the center, a powerful spiral energy arises out of a
mysterious background of three colours: ash white, deep green and blue. The
second pattern (as if done with a knife or spatula) surrounds it with smoky
brown flower petals that are beautifully stained with deep green and blue from
the center, like an aura shooting forth the spiral energy. The pattern reminds
me of the effects of Amida yasuri (Buddha's aura), often radiating outward in
the work of Japanese tsuba. The light brown base blends with these three
colours again to appear like a spreading stain. Overall, strong firing and
smoky effects without any obvious glaze work makes it beautiful mysterious.
The bowl's contour is gradually raised from the base to the outer rim at 40
degrees, simultaneously expressing expansion and contraction, or forces of
centripetal and centrifugal energy.

<img src=\"/images/biranbowl.gif\" />

I can't be sure of the bowl's origins, but it looks to me to be Bizen or
Tamba pottery of Japan. I had found it sitting amongst some rubbish in the
middle of my garage in the summer of 1999, just about the same time that I
chose the name Biran. It came with such perfect timing and coincidence, I
first thought. Later, I learned that my wife found it on top of a garbage can
in a neighborhood alley. It surely happened to be a gift from Heaven with a
blessing for Birankai.

T.K. Chiba, Founder of Birankai